# Helpers
!> Before starting this section, make sure you've read [registering arguments](/registering_arguments) and [parsing arguments](/parsing_arguments).

In addition to all of its other functionality, koi also exposes a few helper functions and internal variables.

## Helper functions
There are a few helper functions included with koi. These are used internally, but can also be helpful in scripts. Helper functions are different from _verifying functions_. To learn more about verifying functions, refer to [verifying arguments](/verifying_arguments?id=verifying-functions).

[Why do some functions need to start with two underscores?](/faq?id=why-do-some-functions-need-to-start-with-two-underscores)

### __cleararglists

`__cleararglists` is the function called internally to clear the argument lists. Koi uses argument lists to keep track of registered arguments from `__addarg`. Clearing the argument lists can be helpful in rare occasions, such as when nesting two functions that parse arguments (see *[Why can't I nest functions that parse arguments?](/faq?id=why-can39t-i-nest-functions-that-parse-arguments)*). One example of this being used is in the koi builtin [`help`](/using_subcommands?id=help) subcommand.

**External use:** _use with caution_

### __commanddocs

`__commanddocs` is the function called internally to print out all of the verbose subcommand documentation. In addition, it verifies that there are no errors relating to registering arguments with `__addarg`. 

**External use:** _use as desired_

### __errortext

`__errortext` is the function called internally to write to `stderr`. You can specify the `-c`/`--color` flag to print the error output in red, which koi uses for internal errors like those that arise from `__addarg` and `__parseargs`.

**External use:** _use as desired_

### __helptext

`__helptext` is the function called internally to format the autogenerated help menu based on `koiwordwraplength` (see [Configuration](/configuration) and the help menu content.

**External use:** _not recommended_

### __join

`__join` is the function called internally to join a list of strings together with a common character. It works the same as the _join_ function in most other programming languages.

**External use:** _use as desired_

### __listfunctions

`__listfunctions` is the function called internally to list the available CLI subcommands (any function that does not begin with an underscore (`_`) or dash (`-`)).

**External use:** _use as desired_

### __parsekoirc

`__parsekoirc` is the function called internally to parse the `~/.koirc` file.

**External use:** _not recommended_

### __resolvekoircvalues

`__resolvekoircvalues` is the function called internally to transform values in the `~/.koirc` file into Bash literals.

**External use:** _not recommended_

## Internal variables
Koi also uses a few internal variables. It is _highly recommended_ that you do not overwrite these variables in the majority of cases, as doing so will affect koi's functionality.
* `__koisubcommands` if `1`, use subcommands, if `0`, use `__koimain`
* `__koishortoptions` the argument list used to store short options
* `__koilongoptions` the argument list used to store long options
* `__koiactions` the argument list used to store actions
* `__koirequireds` the argument list used to store requireds
* `__koidefaults` the argument list used to store defaults
* `__koihelptexts` the argument list used to store help texts
* `__koiverifyingfunctions` the argument list used to store verifying functions and their arguments
* `__koigroupmeta` the argument list used to store meta information about groups
* `__koigroupvalue` the argument list used to store literal information about groups
* `__koiparsedargs` the list of arguments that have been parsed
* `__koidependencies` the list of defined dependent arguments and their dependencies

!> **Warning**<br>Overwriting these variables could have unintended effects that may cause koi to malfunction.

<hr>
<div style="text-align:center">
	<a class="edit-link" href="https://github.com/wcarhart/docs/blob/master/docs/koi/helpers.md" target="_blank"><i class="fas fa-edit"></i> Edit this page</a>
</div>